README.md, before:

<img src="assets/min-ver.png" width="100" />

# MinVer

_[![nuget](https://img.shields.io/nuget/v/MinVer.svg?style=flat)](https://www.nuget.org/packages/MinVer)_
_[![Build status](https://ci.appveyor.com/api/projects/status/0ai8j3x4tg6w3ima/branch/master?svg=true)](https://ci.appveyor.com/project/adamralph/min-ver/branch/master)_

A minimalistic [.NET package](https://www.nuget.org/packages/MinVer) for versioning .NET projects using Git tags.

Platform support: [.NET Standard 1.3 and upwards](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/standard/net-standard).

## Quick start

1. Remove any `Version` or `VersionPrefix` elements from your project. (You can keep `VersionSuffix`, but it should be restricted to [build metadata](https://semver.org/#spec-item-10) only.)
1. `dotnet add package MinVer`
2. `dotnet build`
3. Your project will be versioned according to the latest tag found in the commit history.

## How it works

### Inputs

- The last tag on HEAD or it's ancestors which represents a [SemVer](https://semver.org) version number.*
- By how many commits HEAD is ahead of the tag (known as "height").

\* _Each time the history diverges to two parents, both branches are followed, and the last tag is found on each. The tag with the latest version number is used._

### Algorithm

- If the height is zero (i.e. the tag is on HEAD), then the HEAD version matches the tag.
- If the height is non-zero (i.e. the tag is on an older commit), then:
  - If the last tag is an RTM version, `MAJOR.MINOR.PATCH`, then the HEAD version is `MAJOR.MINOR+1.PATCH-alpha.0.{height}`.
  - If the last tag is a pre-release version, `MAJOR.MINOR.PATCH-{pre-release identifiers}`, then the HEAD version is `MAJOR.MINOR.PATCH-{pre-release identifiers}.{height}`.

## FAQ

### Does MinVer work with my chosen branching strategy?

Yes! MinVer doesn't care about branches. It's all about the tags!

That means MinVer is compatible with [Git Flow](https://nvie.com/posts/a-successful-git-branching-model/), [GitHub Flow](https://guides.github.com/introduction/flow/), [Release Flow](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/devops/learn/devops-at-microsoft/release-flow), and any other exotic flow.

### What if it all goes wrong?

If your tags get into a mess and you can't find a way out, you can temporarily switch off MinVer and switch back to the old way of doing things by simply adding a `Version` or `VersionPrefix` element to your project. When you've figure out the problem, remove the element and MinVer will resume active duty.

The same applies if you find a bug in MinVer (consider that a challenge!) and you're waiting for a fix, but you need to ship your software in the meantime.

---

<sub>[Tag](https://thenounproject.com/term/tag/938952) by [Ananth](https://thenounproject.com/ananthshas/) from [the Noun Project](https://thenounproject.com/).</sub>

Commit message:

use height from first branch checked when history converges

README.md, after:

<img src="assets/min-ver.png" width="100" />

# MinVer

_[![nuget](https://img.shields.io/nuget/v/MinVer.svg?style=flat)](https://www.nuget.org/packages/MinVer)_
_[![Build status](https://ci.appveyor.com/api/projects/status/0ai8j3x4tg6w3ima/branch/master?svg=true)](https://ci.appveyor.com/project/adamralph/min-ver/branch/master)_

A minimalistic [.NET package](https://www.nuget.org/packages/MinVer) for versioning .NET projects using Git tags.

Platform support: [.NET Standard 1.3 and upwards](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/standard/net-standard).

## Quick start

1. Remove any `Version` or `VersionPrefix` elements from your project. (You can keep `VersionSuffix`, but it should be restricted to [build metadata](https://semver.org/#spec-item-10) only.)
1. `dotnet add package MinVer`
2. `dotnet build`
3. Your project will be versioned according to the latest tag found in the commit history.

## How it works

### Inputs

- The last tag on HEAD or it's ancestors which represents a [SemVer](https://semver.org) version number.*
- By how many commits HEAD is ahead of the tag (known as "height").

\* _Each time the history diverges to two parents, both branches are followed, and the last tag is found on each. The tag with the latest version number is used. If the history converges back to the same tag, the height on the first branch checked is used._

### Algorithm

- If the height is zero (i.e. the tag is on HEAD), then the HEAD version matches the tag.
- If the height is non-zero (i.e. the tag is on an older commit), then:
  - If the last tag is an RTM version, `MAJOR.MINOR.PATCH`, then the HEAD version is `MAJOR.MINOR+1.PATCH-alpha.0.{height}`.
  - If the last tag is a pre-release version, `MAJOR.MINOR.PATCH-{pre-release identifiers}`, then the HEAD version is `MAJOR.MINOR.PATCH-{pre-release identifiers}.{height}`.

## FAQ

### Does MinVer work with my chosen branching strategy?

Yes! MinVer doesn't care about branches. It's all about the tags!

That means MinVer is compatible with [Git Flow](https://nvie.com/posts/a-successful-git-branching-model/), [GitHub Flow](https://guides.github.com/introduction/flow/), [Release Flow](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/devops/learn/devops-at-microsoft/release-flow), and any other exotic flow.

### What if it all goes wrong?

If your tags get into a mess and you can't find a way out, you can temporarily switch off MinVer and switch back to the old way of doing things by simply adding a `Version` or `VersionPrefix` element to your project. When you've figure out the problem, remove the element and MinVer will resume active duty.

The same applies if you find a bug in MinVer (consider that a challenge!) and you're waiting for a fix, but you need to ship your software in the meantime.

---

<sub>[Tag](https://thenounproject.com/term/tag/938952) by [Ananth](https://thenounproject.com/ananthshas/) from [the Noun Project](https://thenounproject.com/).</sub>
